New Recipe: DDoS / Slowloris (#145)
confluentinc/ksqldb-recipes: docs/cybersecurity/ddos/index.md

---
seo:
  title: Detecting a Slowloris DDoS attack 
  description: A ksqlDB recipe that detects network disruption attacks by processing packet data
---

# Detect a Slowloris DDoS network attack 

Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks are specific type of cyber-attack in which a targeted system is flooded with spurious network requests using multiple hosts and IP addresses. The distributed nature of these attacks make them more effective and difficult to mitigate. This recipe shows a strategy for ingesting and processing network packet data in an effort to detect a specific DDoS attack known as Slowloris.

![slowloris_attack](../../img/ssh-attack.jpg)

## Step by step

### Set up your environment

> Provision a Kafka cluster in [Confluent Cloud](https://www.confluent.io/confluent-cloud/tryfree/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=ksqldb_recipes&utm_campaign=online_dating).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provision a Kafka cluster in [Confluent Cloud](https://www.confluent.io/confluent-cloud/tryfree/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=ksqldb_recipes&utm_campaign=slowloris_ddos).
```

--8<-- "docs/shared/ccloud_setup.md"

### Read the data in

--8<-- "docs/shared/connect.md"

This recipe assumes you have captured your network packet data and published it to a RabbitMQ queue in JSON format. An example packet may look like the following example. 

**Note**: To keep this recipe brief, some fields have been removed and names simplified from a typical packet capture event.

```json
{
  "timestamp": "1590682723239",
  "layers": {
    "frame": { 
      "time": "May 28, 2020 11:48:43.239564000 CST",
      "protocols": "eth:ethertype:ip:tcp"
    },
    "eth": { 
      "src": "FF:AA:C9:83:C0:21",
      "dst": "DF:ED:E3:91:D4:13"
    },
    "ip": {
      "src": "192.168.33.11",
      "src_host": "192.168.33.11",
      "dst": "192.168.33.77",
      "dst_host": "192.168.33.77"
    },
    "tcp": { 
      "srcport": "59202",
      "dstport": "443",
      "flags_ack": "1",
      "flags_reset": "0"
    }
  }
}
```

This connector will source that data into a Kafka topic and can be stream processed in ksqlDB.

```json
--8<-- "docs/cybersecurity/ddos/source.json"
```

--8<-- "docs/shared/manual_insert.md"

### ksqlDB code

> This application takes the raw network packet data and creates a structured stream of events that can be processed using SQL. Using [Windows](https://docs.ksqldb.io/en/latest/concepts/time-and-windows-in-ksqldb-queries/#windows-in-sql-queries) and filters, the application detects a high number of connection `RESET` events from the server and isolates the potentially offending source.

Reviewer: If `Windows` is linked, maybe `filters` should be as well?  Or neither.

Author: I couldn't find a good single link to "filters" or conditionals, but I may have missed it. I'm ok with the minor inconsistency, but if you want me to remove the windows link I can

```sql
  timestamp BIGINT,
  layers STRUCT<
   ...
   ip STRUCT< 
      src VARCHAR, 
      src_host VARCHAR, 
      dst VARCHAR, 
      dst_host VARCHAR, 
      proto VARCHAR >,
   ...
```

We are declaring an event structure that contains a timestamp field and then a child nested data structure named `layers`. Comparing the sample packet capture event with the declared structure, we see the relationships between the data and the field names and types:

```json
{
  "timestamp": "1590682723239",
  "layers": {
    ...
    "ip": {
      "src": "192.168.33.11",
      "src_host": "192.168.33.11",
      "dst": "192.168.33.77",
      "dst_host": "192.168.33.77"
    },
    ...
  }
}

```

The `CREATE STREAM ... WITH ...` [statement](https://docs.ksqldb.io/en/latest/developer-guide/ksqldb-reference/create-stream/) marries together the schema for the events with the Kafka topic. The `WITH` clause in the statement allows you to specify details about the stream. 

```sql
WITH (
  KAFKA_TOPIC='network-traffic', 
  TIMESTAMP='timestamp', 
  VALUE_FORMAT='JSON', 
  PARTITIONS=6
);
```

> The `KAFKA_TOPIC` property is required, and indicates the topic that will back the stream. The topic must either exist in Kafka, or the `PARTITIONS` property must be provided as well. If you're creating a stream for a topic that already exists, like would be the case when using a connector to source event data, you should remove the `PARTITIONS` property from this command.

Reviewer: @rspurgeon This is a great explanation!  Since it applies to ALL recipes, WDYT if you move this into a `docs/shared/<tbd>` file and reference it that way?  Maybe in `docs/shared/ksqlb_processing_intro.md`?

Author: Looking at where this information is most useful, I felt it was best left independent of the note about CC console in the `ksqldb_processing_intro` file.  Instead, I put this into a shared file, `ksqldb_with_partitions_info.md` and referenced it here. This way it could be referenced from any recipe in the place that makes the most sense to that particular recipe.  LMK what you think.
